Thank you very much, everyone, for participating and coming again. Thank you very much. Thank you,
time, and effort, of your effort for the Dharma. Dharma is very happy and grateful. Thank you for
these opportunities.
Again, we're going to touch the best of the basically teaching of the greatest teacher, Buddha Shak
yamuni. So therefore, again, we should always remember and not forget that our best, important,
embarrassing and very fundamental, the
motivations or the fundamental foundation of the Dharma, which is motivations. And again, that
motivation, this time, your and appreciation, and then body to that for all living beings. And that
also means that I'm going to really do reflect the teaching and the practices and do the practice
of the six paramata, according my capabilities and the really determination and
for every reason to benefit for all living beings. Really kind of sincerely having that attitude
and thought in mind, which is the body to that, of course, you all know that. With that thought and
then beauty, again, realization of according to the Vedayana teaching that was always said in the
teaching, thought asking. So therefore, again, having those visual motivations and then we reflect
the teaching. And the teaching we follow again is, of course,
the teaching of the Buddha Shakyamuni that particularly is pointed out that our greatest, finest
teacher, Jyugra Ishidodya or Jyabjaya Dhryunamaji, many of you met of this great master, great
teacher and maybe few of you didn't really met that physically. But we all connected to this great
master because his great master was really the most powerful or
one of the most famous and kind of teachers, so many practitioners, so many great teachers and
everyone. So therefore, that everyone almost almost become like his students. And therefore, and we
all really connected that we are like, maybe second generation from these great masters, or maybe
the first one, we are really connected at the regulatory physicals.
But never mind of the physical connection, but we are connected to the spiritual, his voice. The
most important is the teaching. And together with the teaching, together with his mind, mind and
his realization mind and the teaching, that truly we are connected.
So that we are following this teaching. And this teaching, again, we went quite a while ago and we
went through one after another and now we are still on the section of the bodhicata in a way, how
we really entered with Dharma.
And the great teacher, Prasad Cakkimani pointed out that suffering truth, the cause of suffering
truths, those are the samsaras. But we like to change the samsara, how we do that. And that is non-
eighth thing, following the path of truth, path of truth will bring the realization.
To follow the path of truth, that is then, all the Buddhism, first you take rafuddhas. So we went
through those old, about rafuddhi-taking rafuddhas.
Once you talk rafuddhi, they are also called Mahayana teaching, that taking rafuddhi is also not
just only for ourselves, because our compassion.
Our kindness and configuratory for all living beings, we take rafuddhi in the Buddha Dharma Sanghas
. Once we talk rafuddhi, then we are expanded and more strongly motivated, then we develop the bodh
icata, mind of the enlightenment.
Once we develop the bodhicata mind, then the bodhicata can be divided into truths.
And the activities, the intention of bodhicata, or wishing bodhicata, and actualizing bodhicata.
Intention of the wishing bodhicata is the first.
That intention of bodhicata, also we progress, is developed by poor, boundless thought.
Poor, boundless thought.
When poor, boundless thoughts are become stronger and deeper, and sitting in our heart, we apply
that with the tungmi practices.
The tungmi, or the dagi nyamba, the tungmi practices, and then others are more important than
ourselves.
Again, I will say in a debate, dagi nyamba, dagi nyima, and dagi yinchi.
That means, dagi nyamba means that we all are equal.
That means myself and all the sentient beings, every living body, equal every aspect, every way.
So therefore, then we really develop the bodhicata. Because I want to be happy, and the same way
they want to be happy,
I don't want suffering, and similarly, so we all equal. That's what is called dagi nyamba, really.
And of course, you all know that.
And the second is that dagi yinchi means then exchanging, and exchanging our happiness and peaceful
giving to the others,
and others, those difficult troubles are taken inwardly, mentally, like that.
And that is dagi yinchi.
And then dagi yinchi means then others are even more important than ourselves.
That means, this time, the third time, we completely reverse our attitude normal in samsara times.
In the world, when samsara normal, regular our thought, I'm more important than others.
Because I'm the first, and then the others are second.
But this time, we completely reverse that.
Others are more important than myself.
So reverse, because of your compassion and bodhicata.
So those are all known as wishing bodhicatas, exercise the wishing bodhicata.
Once we have that, then we are applying that to actualize the bodhicata.
Again, it's not something that you have to do first, this, and second, and follow that.
But I'm just very loving. I'm talking very hard, very loving.
But otherwise, as soon as we have wishing bodhicata in our heart and mind,
you can also, or we can also practice the actualizing bodhicata according our capabilities.
But how is developing that?
That's kind of strongly, very beautifully, that's what in the teachings say.
First is wishing bodhicata, and second is actualizing bodhicata.
Or at least, when we have the wishing bodhicata, when we have that wishing bodhicata,
sincerely, compassion toward in our heart, mind, like to help each other,
that is then active in the second motivation,
the determination you open your heart, or our heart, to the others.
That is actualizing bodhicata.
Actualizing bodhicata has numerous practices in bodhisattva head,
but this summarizes all the beneficial activities of the great bodhisattvas.
Courageous bodhisattvas are in the six parameters.
So then, we went six parameters, one after another,
let it become thoroughly, slowly by slowly, we went one after another.
And first is generosity.
Second is ease, then morality.
Third is then patience.
Fourth is joyful effort for the virtues.
And fifth is concentration.
Sixth is then wisdom.
Among those six parameters, we went post-pose.
Still, we are going on the fifth parameter, which is concentration parameter.
We are going still on that.
And concentration parameter is particularly connected to the mental states.
Fourth three parameters, I mentioned, is more how to take care of our activities of the body,
of speech, when we are helping to the other beings.
That is more, like, the fourth is more kind of outreaching violence.
And that is, third one is the mental mind, the most powerful.
Behind the scenes, who is really activating generosity?
Who is activating the morality?
Who is activating patience?
This activated also joyful effort is no other than the mind.
So now take care of the mind.
Mind is the most powerful among all the time.
And that is, we went through, of course, you all know.
You all, we all received the teaching, you all know that.
According to Buddhism, mind controls everything.
Not just control, mind produced both samsara and nirvana.
Both are moved from this one's own mind, not talking mind to someone else.
Our own mind, my own mind, produced my destinations,
my environments of samsara.
And also it will produce, it will expand my nirvana too.
Same way to you and others as according to Buddhism.
Buddhism.
And also it is really true, in a way, when we look at our own thoughts
and our own constructions and activities, everything is really motivated by mind.
Everything, what we do, everything, all the activities, everything.
So, therefore, all the feelings, our perceptions, our concerns, our ideas,
our beliefs, our deeds, and that, whatever is there, that all is really produced,
created, maintained, up-kept by the mind.
So therefore, now, look into the mind.
And the present of our mind is so busy, so active.
It's not rest at all.
Even maybe we don't feel that.
But now we need rest.
We need to relax.
And we rest and relax.
In the teaching, imagine it.
Then you really will discover so many beauties, so many wonders.
Within this, from our own mind, one after another,
those unfolding wonders will show up.
It will be one after another.
Those are known as the development of the samadhis,
all different stages according to the teachings.
So that all starts from mind.
For that reason, then this beyond paramata is so important.
Then paramata is divided into these three sections. Again, I'm repeating that.
As I said already, and you already know those.
I'm told, and then you know those.
And those three samadhis or dhyans are the first is, in it very, as I said,
ji pa, nya tuk, or something.
Dong ram, ji pa, second is dong ram, ji pa, something.
Third is the ji shi pa, ji pa, something.
Those are very important.
If I translate it roughly into English, of course you can look better translations.
You can find out. Maybe you already know.
But first is, I'm translating this ji pa, nya tuk, ji pa, nya tuk, something.
I'm translating the beginner, general meditation states. That's what I'm translating.
Ji pa, nya tuk, every beginner meditation states.
Second is, dong ram, ji pa, something.
I'm translating, exploring the deep meaning,
samadhi of the deep, exploring the deep meaning of the nature.
That is the second.
Third one, devi ji pa, ji pa, something, I'm translating.
As the samadhi that will even please the Buddhas or the Atharadas,
those are, I'm translating them.
And the fourth is, daur, so that are the three divisions.
And as I already said, you all know what is nature for the identity of the samadhis or liyans.
Not destructed. Not destructed. That's it. Not destructed.
By what? By our mind.
Whatever the cause can be, may be, but not destructed.
What is the cause? Highlight of what again a great teacher, Bodhachaka Muni's teaching,
that which he highlighted by many older, there goes great masters, true destructions,
physical destructions, and mental destructions.
Both are obstacles of the dhyana paravatas, dhyans, or the meditation,
or the concentrates, dhyana paravatas.
And our fourth one is Bodhi, destructions of the Bodhi.
And all the activations of the Bodhi and speeches, mundane activities,
or even the spiritual activities, physical activities.
Anywhere, keeping busy, busy, not letting the time to rest of the mind.
A busy is just a complete kind of busy, that business of the Bodhi,
physical business of the verbal, that is the first destructions of the physical destructions.
Second is mental destructions, or mental businesses.
So order to avoid those two businesses, first you go to the hermitage.
I say those, and you all know hermitage, or go to retreat.
Those are standard terminologies that we all know.
Once you go in a reachy land, now the most important is the business of the mental activities,
particularly during the sitting sessions, meditation time,
not keeping the business and mental destructions.
That is, again we are distracted that our calling of the meditation is devilated or deluded.
Even we have the posture in sitting in a retreat, quiet in peaceful places,
where our mind is a complete business, everywhere around it.
That is not calling, calling, calling, very good calling in meditation.
And these are the stories.
Quite a few times, and I remember that.
And many of you have heard that.
These are the stories of the various films, meditation masters,
great teachers in a debate of Buddhism and particularly Rupakaji lineages.
And which is known as, then, Rupakalay. Many of you have heard that.
These great, crazy wisdom yogis, very highly visualized beings, Rupakandas.
And according to this story, Rupakalay has another brother,
who was a very big lama, big teacher, too.
But he is the head of the monasteries, big monasteries, monasteries.
And I heard his name, Awen Chudyar.
One day, they both decided to do retreat, the hermetic retreat.
Rupakalay said to his brother, Awen Chudyar, when they proposed each other like that,
he said, "Are you sure you can do the re-retreat?"
"To it?"
"Yes, I'm deciding, and I can do that. I would like to do that. I will do that."
So then, if you really can do the retreat, then we will do it together.
But every one of us leave the retreat.
He said, "Om, you leave the retreat. I'm not going to stay. My selfish retreat.
I'm going to go right back, moment. Right that time, as soon as you leave the retreat, I will leave
.
I'm not going to do retreat with you."
I think that's it. And his brother, Vic Lamo, quickly said, "What are you saying?"
"If I make a decision to go retreat, whatever the time, the moment they decided,
one week, or two months, or one month, or whatever that is, I'm going to stay that long retreat.
What are you saying?"
"I'm sure," his brother, the Rupakalay, said, "I'm sure you can do that."
"Yes, I'm willing to do that. I do that."
Again he said, "Every year, the retreat grows. I'm not going to stay.
My selfish retreat has stayed in a cage. I'm not going to stay in a cage.
I'm going to leave right that moment. Moment."
So, then they decided to go retreat. They went to retreat, both in influence.
According to the teaching, Rupakalay can read the mind of others.
Such is great in life being yogis.
So, now they are doing retreat, both are enjoying, very beautifully, perfectly.
But this other brother, Nami Chijap, he sends his head to the monasteries,
and then occasionally he is thinking of the welfare of the monasteries,
the administer aspect of the monasteries, and the monks and all that.
So, one day he started really thinking only about the administers
of the aspect of the monasteries.
Right that moment, Rupakalay came out of the retreat cabin.
He made a big noise.
"Since you are not staying in the rule of the retreat,
I'm not going to stay in my retreat.
I'm not going to keep my body in a cage.
And I'm going to leave right now as we decide."
So, he left the retreat.
So, that is really his story.
For example, if you keep the retreat when you are in a retreat cabin,
our mind is busyness and keeping one day all over the world,
all over the vast memories and future plans,
present activities of the world, the pleasure sensual objects of this and that,
back and forth, all that.
Then all of the retreat is really losing and deluded.
Therefore, this is of course Nupakalay.
He is a very famous enlightened being.
He can do those.
Of course, many of us, our mind can wander a different place
during the retreat or even during the meditate.
But the moment we realize, really we don't let that go.
That's why I said the other day, and you all know,
one of the teachings said, "Keep the focus."
Well, pillar of the focus by the love of the mindfulness,
tied up the mind by the love of the mindfulness
and tied up to the pillar of the focus,
and a right by consciousness.
Our training is provided by consciousness.
That tells us how mind has to be maintained,
really, joyfully, with the relaxation,
but yet with the determination and with mindfulness
and consciousness, consciousness.
Those are really the important.
So that is what I really mentioned.
So now, with that understanding, again, we go back to that.
Now I say three samadhis, three dhyana paramatas.
Now we go, how we do that meditation.
The first thing, of course, you all know again,
that is, now we are going to focus.
Focus, that means focus as a pillar.
Now we are going to focus to that, our mind,
with the rob, or with the assessment of the rob of the mindfulness.
Rob, R-O-P-E, I believe, rob of the mindfulness.
Well, hold to that pillar of the focus, or object of focus.
An object of focus is now about this stage.
Meditation is known as shamatha meditation, or cheni meditation.
I said, as I said the other day,
there is a numerous techniques of the concentration of focus,
but I am going to summarize, or I am going to not summarize,
I am going to just two ways.
Two, focus outwardly, focus inwardly.
And if I focus outwardly, I have also two,
with the regular object, with the holding object.
I start, I lay out that.
Whether, but whether the numbers, the techniques are there,
the primary is same, quality is same, have to focus.
That is the focus, that is what it is.
Happy focus.
So now, with the holding object, or with the regular objects,
we lay out.
And that is again, I already mentioned,
with the regular objects, such as marble, small crystal,
small stone, your distance,
all three elbows, size, distance, about that, that,
put right in front of you.
And with the seven posts of the Gudavara Chyana,
or whatever posture you got,
but trying to stay straight up your back spines,
and health, health, kind of more,
also a corner line of the spines.
Focus to that object.
Object.
That object, where you focus as in the teaching,
use the metaphor, example, metaphor, as rhythm.
Now you are, that is your rhythm, or our rhythm.
Now keep up that continually, without distracted.
That is mindfulness's role.
Drop.
Who is watching that?
It's the mind.
Monkey mind's neck is,
or a drunk elephant's neck is tied up,
or a drunk horse's neck is tied up,
a rope of mindfulness tied up with it.
With the object, the focus of the rhythm.
Now you are going to keep that.
Keep that.
How long, how long are you going to keep that?
As long as you can stay.
Or you have time.
Ten minutes, fifteen minutes,
all five minutes, whatever you have time.
Well, you are watching that.
What is it, or where you are ready to, how that?
And the teaching said,
I said already last time, and you all know,
comfortable, spaciousness,
relaxedness, not creating tensions,
tightness, uncomfortable, kind of pause for that.
Relax.
Now you are really trying to touch your inner nature,
our inner nature.
Don't have to create the tension.
Tension is unnatural.
We are trying to go back to the natural states.
Relax, calm, peaceful.
That way, see?
And of course, before this, to start meditation,
I also mentioned, mentioned with,
with pause, pause, pouring on like a toss,
and the body, jettas, and devotions.
And with those thoughts, calling down my thoughts,
or the linear breath, according to what, you know,
those kind of sizzling energy,
warming up those breath.
Really giant, great, full stone prison of the lineage masters,
the Buddha, M훮r훮pa and M훮sambh훮ma,
and their blessings coming, showering down to us,
to all the beings, finally dissolved,
merged into your own nature of the mind.
Now you meditate.
You meditate with that.
Continue.
Continue with that.
At that time, also, if your eyes are open,
or the focus, whatever,
but in the most of the time, in the teaching mentioned,
semi-openness, so it's not something that close eyes.
But many times, people prefer to close eyes,
and I think that's also okay.
But if you open the eyes, semi-open,
semi-eye open, not completely open.
Why do you open, not close, semi-open?
Also in the teaching, say, not blanking the eye,
not moving the eye.
Reason, I said all other days, too, in the teaching said,
because mind is very much connected to the wind.
Wind is very much connected to the channels, or nervous systems.
Nervous systems is also very much connected,
during that time, to our eyeballs, eyes.
So therefore, stable, stable eye,
resting eye will help to channel rest.
Channel rest will help.
It will help to the wind.
And when the wind is a little more rested,
it will naturally help calm down our mind.
When our calm down mind is more calm down rested,
then the beauty of nature of the mind will begin to shine.
So therefore, rest there, relax.
That's the really teaching said.
So that is focus within regular objects.
Regular objects.
Focus within all your objects.
That is then, same thing.
But instead, those marbles and crystals,
any kind of other object,
in the many times the teaching said,
focus to the Buddha status.
Buddha status, small Buddha status every year,
small Pukkyo, kind of nice and bright,
that kind of quite clear one,
and put right in front of the spot,
same distance where you put in the marble or crystals.
And focus to the Buddha.
Buddha, any, no, Buddha, of course, is known as Buddha,
is the golden god.
Pukkyo, calm, peaceful, relaxed, open, very grounded.
That is what Buddha is.
He is calming.
Even merely thinking of Buddha,
it will bring the peace, calmness in our heart and mind.
And Buddha is also simple.
There is not many things.
And focus to the pad, eyes, or the face.
Buddha, focus to that.
So, same thing, focus.
Even your focus to the Buddha,
with mindfulness, raw,
as a standard of the consciousness,
our mind will go away.
That, go away.
That is just a recollect in this.
Go away.
But without making any kind of a question or worries,
and thought that as soon as we realize it,
bring back to the focus, to the Buddha's stitches,
and concentrate on the Buddha's image.
Image.
At the beginning of time, again, what you said,
you will feel some degree of the calmness.
That is naturally the quality of the meditation,
when we touch to our nature of the mind.
That is, that every individualist,
when they start meditating,
according to teaching, everyone will feel that calm, peaceful,
kind of quietness.
It feels something.
We can take deep breaths.
The calmness is relaxing. Touching to the nature, you can feel that.
That all, everyone.
Even if we feel that, then, next to that moment,
the mind is so busy.
It is carried by the old, old habit of happiness.
Our wandering towards the five pleasure objects,
aliens, of your five pleasures,
good or bad, or whatever those,
medium, mixture, old, that really carry.
Those are known as the goba in it a bit,
wildness of mind.
Wildness of mind.
And then, maybe sometimes, because during that time,
maybe we meet mind, it becomes more kind of chattering,
it becomes very calm,
it becomes more calm and peaceful.
Not just that, but more than that, it becomes more kind of foggy,
dullness, sleepiness, then fall asleep.
That is known as sinking the mind.
That both are obstacles of the meditation.
What we need, that's not mindfulness, but consciousness.
Consciousness will bring adjustment.
Bring both.
There is too much busyness.
And bring calm, bring down calmness.
There is too much, like, kind of dullness.
Again, consciousness will have to wake up,
bring more clarity in the mind.
And particularly in the teachings,
those who see, whether it is wildness
or whether it is sinkingness,
in that time, you can also do really some prayers,
such as thinking of the four, you know, second thoughts.
In part of this, spiritual lives,
reflecting those just even for one minute,
will help to wake up our mind, adjust the mental status.
Or sometimes, create both each other, compassion,
reaching good thoughts, such as full boneless.
May all living beings have happiness and cause of happiness,
such as loving-kindness prayers.
May all living beings suffering and cause of suffering,
sincerely reflecting my two thousand meanings,
and joining them.
That also really will adjust the mind.
It will calm down.
After that, again, relax.
Relax.
Again, it is continually happening in the teachings.
Sometimes, you can focus.
Focus then, such as, like, that is more kind of inwardly there.
And focus some syllable arts right on our current jakras,
white syllable art in our current jakras,
or white syllable art on the naval jakras.
Ground jakras, naval jakras,
those, whatever your focus today, that will help.
Again, help to adjust, calm down the mind.
And so, this is the meditation, focus, or outward, to outwardly.
Then, inwardly focus of the meditation, or concentrations.
Again, I'm going to talk two.
The regular one and the holy one, or the noble one.
The other one is very popular in the Buddhist teachings,
that we all know, the breathing.
Focusing our mind on the breathing.
Breathing.
And that breathing came from the nostrils.
That means we are seven postures of the Buddha-vera-jhana,
or whatever the postures.
Five postures of the Buddha-vera-jhana,
six postures of the Buddha-vera-jhana,
according to whatever you can do.
But let breathing came from the nostrils.
And that breathing came as gently as it should be.
Or that means normal, there's nothing changed yet.
And watching the breathing going in and out.
That means your awareness, your concentration is with breathing now.
Your mind is with breathing.
And when breathing is going out, we see.
Our breathing is going out.
When it is calm, we see.
Inwardly, you see, breathing is coming inwardly.
On the other hand, you see, exhale, you see, inhale.
Exhale, inhale, gently, as it should be.
Calm and peaceful, nothing changed.
Quietly focusing on the breathing.
In and out.
If you do that, or sometimes you can calm.
For example, nine times.
Calm.
Calm the breathing.
For example, inhale and exhale as one.
One.
And that is, then, that means you're focusing to your mind with breathing
at the same time with that number.
So that is, again, breathing becomes the pillar, object of focus.
And your mindfulness is watching, keeping up.
Up, our mind really breathing.
So that time, our breathing and mind become as one.
And in the teaching, say, also, breathing is very much connected with the mind,
or the air, or the wind is very much connected to the mind.
And therefore, also really, conveying breathing is very powerful, natural.
Naturally, it will serve down the mind, it will calm, it will bring calmness.
So that is, like as many of you all know already,
but that is like focus with inwardly, with our physical kind of what call it this,
of the breathing of focus.
Then, the holy focus of inwardly, with the holy object,
again we then, same thing, visualize or meditate the Buddha
right in our heart centers and beautiful lotus petals,
beautiful lotus petals or earth petals, lotus petals.
And many of the earth lotus petals, there is golden Buddha,
the rainbow Buddha is residing in our heart centers.
And in the same way, focus to the Buddha, Buddha.
And that is then, keep the same way, as long as you can.
Same techniques, but only slightly different than the object of the focus.
In the teaching mentioned many times,
whether it is out of focus or outwardly immediate of the Buddha,
or inwardly Buddha it really will help our visualizations,
such as the visualizations that Vaidyana teaches.
Because it is similar to the blessings of the Vaidyas and therefore it will bless,
it will help to kind of brighten, strengthening and clarity of the visualizations too.
So that is what the object of the, there are two things.
Then I taught one more concentrate, and that is non-purpose concentrate.
That means no focus.
This is again same posture, same thing, but no focus.
The moment look to our thought, with the thought arising,
that moment look to one's own mind.
And when you look to your own mind, there is nothing you find, or will find.
Relax in that state.
That's it, hold that.
No thought, no focus.
Relax in that state, as long as you stay.
That is known as, no focus of the Yamada meditations.
Now, when we do this Yamada meditations, continually,
according to the teaching, that at the beginning of time, what our feelings,
anybody can feel is calmness, peacefulness.
But if we continue to meditate, keep that concentrate.
Then three visible experiences will come up.
And that we all heard so many times, you all know.
Those are the experiences of the blissfulness,
clarity, and no force.
Those three experiences will come.
And the fourth is, blissfulness experiences.
Not just the kind of feel of the calmness and the peaceful,
but that time, if you really continue meditating,
according to the teaching, that you will feel more happiness.
Without any reason, particularly, you feel more happy, more relaxed,
particularly more happiness, more peaceful.
That is known as calmness or the blissfulness experiences.
And the opposite also in some teachings says,
can feel more kind of emotion too, sometimes.
Become more kind of emotion like that, suddenly.
But then, whatever it is, it is not something that is a high result of the meditation.
We are achieving that, but it really means, in the teaching said,
it means we progress, we develop.
So now, either way, don't want to hold onto those experiences.
Continue the meditation, same way as we started.
Started with beautiful motivation, thought, intention, and meditation.
Course in it.
Sometimes those experiences, instead of very happiness, peaceful,
and all the changes you see, are not just completely kind of those disabled,
but at the same time, you can start feeling sometimes more kind of clarity,
more kind of smartness, more kind of ideas,
more kind of intelligence, more brilliant attitude,
more kind of intelligence that feels more kind of clarity,
more smart and more kind of knowledgeable,
and kind of we can become more noticeable than before.
And again, this is the sign of the development.
Sign of progress is not something big progress, big high result according to the teachings.
So that, and even teaching says that, those good practitioners,
even can see through the walls, or behind the walls,
those kind of brightness, clarity can show up.
And then this is, sometimes the experience is more thoughts.
At that time, you can feel all my meditation has become so calm and peaceful.
Now even I don't have any consultations or thoughts.
I completely can't relate to the lost thoughts, feeling of kind of where all the thoughts have gone
,
and those are called not thought experiences.
These thoughts, these three experiences, according to the teaching,
according to the great masters, is normal, procedural experiences, experiences.
A sign of the we are moving forward, of our meditation, and suddenly progresses.
But those who all are known as experience or flavor, taste of the meditation, flavor or taste.
Taste, we should not attach it, grasping and think this is a sign of high result.
It's just beginner status. Beginner status, as I said earlier,
the three samadhis when we divided, or not we divided as a divided in the teaching,
this is the process, process status, that you are experiencing the flavor or the taste of the
meditation.
And there is also kind of feel that many times we meditators are looking for those flavors,
such as peaceful, blessfulness, clarity, not thought, kind of those we are looking for.
Therefore, it is also in the category of the regular general meditators, meditation states.
So that is the process of samadhis.
And that is my talk for today, and thank you very much again everyone for participating,
and thank you so much. Thank you everyone again, thank you.
Now we start to do our practices again, the healing practices.
Thank you. And we have that government, please open the movement.
Start with the seven line prayer again, as we did.